hi I'm Michelle and I want to invite you
and welcome you to the Glassic happy and
our private studio
aren't these beautiful I met the glass
Academy in dearborn where the fine art
of glassblowing is alive and well
Michelle this is really exciting to be
here where it kind of like in the
industrial area in Dearborn there's a
whole what do you promise the art
community we call this Dearborn's art
district and we invite people to our
studio to check out what we do I see
signs all over glass Academy in the
furnace what is the difference furnace
designs to do as a company my husband
and I started and we do large-scale very
elaborate site-specific glass
installation and we opened it up to the
public so that they could come in and
see what we make here there's a little
hands on something for everyone for
holiday seasonal hours we are open until
8pm on wednesday evenings but once a
month we open our doors for the general
public to come by and evenings and try
their hand at glassblowing or to sit and
watch the glass blowers work it's called
heavy night coffee night second
Wednesday of every month yeah well we're
working studio so every time you come in
we're going to have a different project
that we're working on a lot of times
they're large-scale corporate works and
if you say hey that looks cool i think i
can do that then you can step over and
do one of our hands-on activities can we
kind of take a look around and see
please do you lead off all right
well looking up you've got lights and
the trees so festive looking at here the
cool thing is us as arnesson's we're so
creative we always changeup what we do
so we decided to do the trees this year
for Christmas and our holiday show will
run we have seasonal hour so you can
come and enjoy this we have a beer taste
in that one too in the fall so every
time you come to this space it's gonna
be swapped out so here you've got just
everything Christmas tree ornaments
seasonal favorites as a Christmas tree
ornaments everyone wants blast yet so we
pick different styles and different
colors that we do over here these were
all made here we swap out our specialty
colors every year this year we
highlighted our red ornament ok we have
icicle ornaments we have anyone
interested in breast cancer that wants
to buy something pink we've got items
for them Oh behind you we did things for
new years if you watch champagne flutes
to toast in the new year oh my goodness
aren't those beautiful so now this
series like your retail area that's
always open yes we always have a place
of any client were to come during the
day and once a special gift that we have
works for sale so and I also like to hit
every price point if a child comes in
and wants to buy something I've got a
ten dollar magnet that they can i buy
that's very affordable you know if
you're doing a wedding these are a great
gift set you're mentioning to back here
this is we do the Michigan Renaissance
Festival the glassblowers love it this
is one of the funnest things that we do
the Horned goblets because it's
Renaissance we have fun time with you
Michelle I know you create a lot of this
stuff but there's other artists in here
they are creating artwork as well
correct definitely you want to go meet
him yeah I'd love to all right let's go
hi I'm done with mercury I'm one of the
lamp working instructors here at the
glass Academy
bill this is lamp baking as opposed to
class Chloe yeah same thing it's like a
tabletop lamp or tabletop glassblowing
they call it lampworking because the
oldest form of glassmaking is right here
on the lam so what I'm going to do is
I'm gonna melt some clear glass they
call it crystal glass and I'll just put
a little loop on here that way it could
be a nice little pendant the temperature
of the glass has to be about 1200
degrees 500 degrees in order for it to
bend people can come in here and this is
your area you instruct you things and
you run the gamut you to jolla peachy
job different skill levels yep thank you
thank you to the watch Phil thank you
hi I'm Tom here at the glass academy on
craftsman designer and stained glass
so tell him this guitar you made them I
made this sign did this amazing he'll
then I bet the glass put it together and
the front part of it is a lot of people
want to pick it up and play it really
doesn't play it definitely just a
sculpture it's gorgeous how creative
thank you so what is this here then
you're working this is a piece that I
put together the centerpiece is an old
Victorian piece its acid etch and so the
late 1800s and I thought it was really a
nice piece beautiful and it deserved a
background so I designed and built that
so it's available somebody wants to buy
it but i like it it's
hi I'm Chris nordine Anaheim the other
half of furnace design studio in the
glass Academy
now it is not just about the product
that you buy it's about the experience
you have when you buy that product so we
have five or six blasco at work here for
me people tell us what colors they want
what size they want shapes and we make
the pieces and they can watch those
pieces being made right in front of them
may be anywhere from 15 minutes to an
hour per piece something I play notice
too that you're working in teams the
glassblowing that people typically think
of that's not how it's done it's a
really important thing to be working
with another person because especially
the style that we blow is a venetian
style you have to have something that's
like almost like a dance you know you
work with so many long enough that you
know how to get around them how to move
what they need next year I ahead of what
things need to be made so it's
definitely a partnership that sometimes
we may have three or four different
people working on one particular piece
well you've done a great job awesome
well thank you great
well I like the bright colors of these
and I like that i'm buying michigan made
these remain right here in the day as a
glass academy in dearborn don't you
think these are going to be beautiful on
the tree you really pop against the
dream